# OperatingSysXML
This program simulates the basic fonctionality of an operating system.

## Overview
A thread called generator, generates process and the system executes them.
Here is the _flow_ of a process, from the creation to the death
* The generator choose a random number from 1 to 5 (each of those numbers refers to a different program installed on the Disk).
* The generator Make a system call to tell the OS that he wants to create this process
* The system call is taken by the OS.
* The OS verify the adress corresponding to the call and execute the subroutine of that call
* _The System locates the Program on the Disk_
* _Calculate its size_
* _The MMU allocates the memory to the process_
* _The process is now loaded to the memory_
* _A PCB is automatically created and placed in the readyqueue._
    (Once in the ready queue, Another thread called executor can pick the PCB)
* The executor pick the PCB, updates the status of the process ( ready to executing )
* After updating the status, the CPU Executes the process.
* Interruption is generated by running process
* IORequest is added to the IORequestQueue
* Interruption(IORequest) is handled by the IOHandler
* The corresponding PCB is added to the ready queue after handling the interrupt
* When the process has finished executing, the CPU make the system call to kill the process.
* The OS execute the subroutine that will kill the process and free the memory allocated to it.


## Functionnality
**The following features are implemented**
* [X] A thread can generate process
* [X] The process are placed in the memory by the MMU
* [X] The process is executed by the CPU
* [X] Each process can generate interruptions  
* [X] Interruption are handled  by the interrupt handler
* [X] Each interruption is referenced in the interruption vector table and/ or the syscall table
* [X] After the interruption, the program must return at the exact same place where it was executing
* [X] The process that made the interruption is added to a  the waiting queue
* [ ] User can see via the GUI the procces from creation to death



## License
   Copyright 2018 Nahomie LABONTÉ and Stanley LAGUERRE

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
